Blog post for new helpers in reauth and reconfigure flows (#2356)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2024-10-21-reauth-reconfigure-helpers.md

---
author: epenet
authorURL: https://github.com/epenet
title: "New helpers and best practises for reauth and reconfigure flows"
---

New helper methods have been added to the ConfigFlow to facilitate management of reauth and reconfigure flows:
- `self._get_reauth_entry()` and `self._get_reconfigure_entry()` give access at any time to the corresponding config entry
  - these should be used over `self.hass.config_entries.async_get_entry(self.context["entry_id"])`

>   - these should be requested when needed (local variable, once per step) and not cached as class attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - the config entry should be requested when needed (local variable, once per step) and not cached as class attributes
```

  - if the steps are shared with discovery or user flows, `self.source` should be checked against `SOURCE_REAUTH` and `SOURCE_RECONFIGURE` before accessing the entry

> - `self._abort_if_unique_id_mismatch` allows you to abort if the `unique_id` does not match the `unique_id` of the entry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `self._abort_if_unique_id_mismatch` allows you to abort if the `unique_id` does not match the `unique_id` of the config entry to reauthenticate or reconfigure
```
